# Transcript of interview with Jaiden Alemni, creator of Legends of Astravia

## Details

Interview took place on April 19, 2022. Interviewer is Jonas Rosland.

Full interview available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tAnbwP7eHqk.

Transcription is provided by https://otter.ai.

## Transcript

Jonas Rosland  0:21  
Hello everyone and welcome to yet another Hit Save! indie interview. This is for the Indie Game Preservation Project that we do here at Hit Save!, where we talk to you fantastic indie developers about their marvelous games. So my name is Jonas Rosland. I'm here with Hit Save! and today I am joined by

Jaiden Alemni  0:42  
Jaiden Alemni Hello,

Jonas Rosland  0:44  
Hello, Jaiden. And you're with Studio Alemni.

Jaiden Alemni  0:48  
Yes, yes. Studio Alemni is currently just me. I am a solo developer. But I've got that official studio name. So you know, ready to present my projects under that name and hopefully expand someday into a actual game studio. That's like sort of the name I go by to, you know, keep things official.

Jonas Rosland  1:17  
That's awesome. So, you have your own studio, you're working on a solo project here called Legends of Astravia. Is that how you pronounce it? Yeah, yeah.

Jaiden Alemni  1:28  
Astravia is actually the right way to say it. I say Astravia a lot. But a Astravia is, is kind of, I'd say the, the canonical way to pronounce it because it kind of comes from Astra, like Astro like stars, you know?

Jonas Rosland  1:47  
Like it. I like it. I was playing the demo here a couple of weeks ago, and it was super fun. I had a blast playing through it. And I definitely want to see more. But before before we dive into the game, I want to dive into who you are a bit. Jaden. So how did you get started with game development? How did you get here? How? How did you figure out you know what, I want to start my own studio? And I want to do this. How do you?

Jaiden Alemni  2:19  
Well, it's perhaps a bit cliche. You know, I've always wanted to be a game developer. When I was a kid, I liked more than just playing games, I distinctly remember playing The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time was the big one. I remember playing through the games and being like, this is so cool. Like, how does this work? Like I had this sort of, like obsession with like, how are these like worlds made, like sort of the mechanics involved? When I was in high school, I actually got access to RPG maker or like an old version of RPG Maker. And their game maker was another one. We had, you know, we had the home PC back in like the 2000s hooked up by like AOL, internet. And I had, you know, the fortune of being able to sort of play around and I just, I was obsessed, I loved it. I loved like, trying to figure out how they worked. But then when it came time to go to college, like I really wanted to go to game design school. And it my parents weren't really into it, you know, and a lot of people sort of, like, talk me out of it, because they're like, well, everybody wants to be a game developer. And it's really hard industry to get into. And I was like, Yeah, you know, I'll do something safe. So I went to school for art for a little while, I was gonna go into like graphic design. And then I decided to go into it like information technology, because I was pretty good with computers. So I got my associate's degree in it. And I just couldn't get the bug out of my brain. I just like, game development kind of just kept coming up. I would just like, on and off, like, work on projects and stuff. And then 2017 rolls around. RPG Maker, one of the first engines I played around with, they're having a contest called the indie game making competition and I think it was for like, $5,000 towards your, like, first indie game. And I was like, oh my god, I was like, I'm gonna do it. Like, I'm gonna, I'm gonna try this. And I started actually making like an alpha prototype of what would eventually become legends of Austria. And it was bad. The demo was not good. back then. But it was a good like, experience. People were like, interested in the story and stuff. And I kind of just kept her Finding that idea. And I started self teaching a little bit more like learning more like theory about game design and more like complex concepts. And, you know, I taught myself how to program in Ruby, which is the language that RPGmaker uses. And then this year, I like, started. A rather I released the, like, upgraded demo after all of these years of sort of really solidifying the concept. And that's how, that's how it all happened. And now I'm like, going for the actual, like, game developer thing now.

Jonas Rosland  5:39  
That's amazing. That's amazing. So are you doing this full time right now, or

Jaiden Alemni  5:44  
it is only part time it is still, you know, I have a day job. It's hard, you know, because like, it's, it's not really sustainable. So my goal is to kind of finish up the first chapter of legends of Australia have this like, complete game. And then once I've got something that's like, put together and seems like it has a lot of potential, then I might consider pitching to, you know, publishers and looking into things to actually turn it into, like the real deal. But for now, you know, I have my my day job, which like my day job, too. And it's, you know, it's always such a trade off, right? Because like, when you're comfortable, and you're you're making money doing your thing, but you want to do what you love. Yeah, you got to kind of make that decision. So we'll see. But for now, yeah, it is. It is part time.

Jonas Rosland  6:39  
That's awesome. Yeah, I totally, I can totally relate, of course, have a day job to do things like this. Which exactly really grateful for. So I'm programming in Ruby, is that something that you do within your day job as well?

Jaiden Alemni  6:57  
I don't do well, actually. It's very, like there's a little bit because I work in web. So there is like a little bit of Ruby, but for the most part, no, actually, I don't. I use like JavaScript and whatnot in my day job. And it's kind of funny, because the new like the newest, I use an older version of RPGmaker. And the newest engines use JavaScript. And I don't like it. Rather use Ruby. So it's kind of funny, because like, I could probably use the new one and like, be able to use JavaScript because I use it for my job. But I'm like, I like Ruby too much. I like kind of stubborn about it. It's such a cool programming language. And I enjoy like making the systems in it. So yeah. Like, I feel like the last Ruby programmer standing

Jonas Rosland  7:50  
there. There are a lot of them out there. There are Yeah. So for RPGmaker. So you're doing it in Ruby right now, the new RPGmaker is JavaScript, is it possible at all to port it over to the new one? Or would you have to remake everything?

Jaiden Alemni  8:07  
Yeah, it would be possible, I would have to rewrite like all of my scripts and stuff. And the thought of rewriting my beautiful Ruby code and JavaScript makes me like, I don't want to do it. So yeah, I don't know, I was able to find that maybe this is like a little technical. But the old engine that I use, I use RPGmaker. XP, which came out in like 2007, very long time ago. And it's sort of long since abandoned. And it was made for like old versions of like windows and stuff. And it wasn't, you know, it actually ran very poorly as is. And there was this project called NKXP, which was originally made to like port, old RPGmaker, XP games to Linux. And some of the one of the games that most people will probably be familiar with is to the moon, which was like a very successful indie game, and it was made in RPGmaker. XP. And they use this MK XP engine to not only port it to Linux, but it made the game run a lot better. So I was able to use that same technology for legends of Australia. So it like feels like the new RPGmaker engine anyway. So people tend to be a little surprised when I tell them that I made it in RPGmaker XP, they're like, how is it? I thought it was the new one. Like it looks like the new engines and I'm like, Well, this, this technology allows me to do it. I'm very grateful. So and I'm able to port it to Mac OS as well. Which is something that wasn't possible with the old versions of the of the engine. So

Jonas Rosland  9:58  
yeah, yeah, I was Looking at an A and yeah, it was a little surprised that it's being made in an engine. That's what 15 years old now.

Jaiden Alemni  10:07  
Yeah, XP is it's quite old. I'm surprised the engineer, the editor itself still, like opens on my computer. But it's, there's just something very endearing about it. The like, the the old fashioned sort of tiling system it has like a really good map making system, which is kind of why I was drawn to it over the newer makers because when I started on legends of history via the way the like map making system worked, I in the newer ones, I didn't really like it. They've since updated it now. And I'm like, a little torn. But yeah, it i don't know i There's something about it. But like, it's kind of it's like,

Jonas Rosland  10:55  
I as I was playing, as I said, as I was playing, it definitely didn't feel like a 15 year old engine. I definitely thought you were using a newer engine for this. So yeah, it's fantastic. What the What the old engine and this MK XP was it?

Jaiden Alemni  11:11  
Yeah, and k XP is the is the name of the project that sort of made it, it's an open source project, it's perfectly okay to use by RPGmaker terms in it. It allows like a lot more flexibility with the engine that wasn't there in that old 15 year old version. So there's a lot of sort of manual work to do on the side to like, make it work. But in my opinion, it's worth it. Because it let me do like all of the things that I wanted to do with it. I was starting to get really bottlenecked by that in the old version of the maker, that alpha version, which will I'm sure we'll get to a little bit later.

Jonas Rosland  11:50  
Yeah, well, we'll dive into that. So tell us a bit more about the game itself? Who are the people that we see here? Or at least some of the main characters that we see here?

Unknown Speaker  12:02  
Yes. So in this this key art, we see Oliver at the front here, which he's the main character of the game, and who the player plays as, and we don't know a whole lot about Oliver. He has amnesia, which I think that's it's very funny, because like, some people are like, amnesia, true. And some people are like, yes, it'd be true. So I like it. It's very true to that sort of classic nostalgic, like we're getting into it with with the Japanese style RPG, we're are going Final Fantasy six, we're just like, you know, we get to learn more about the character as he grows and learns more about himself. And I really liked that. So we plays all over, he doesn't really know a whole lot about himself, except that he's rather good at using magic. And he doesn't know where he learned magic. But he wants to find that out. And he's found in the forest. At first by the woman to the right of him in this picture, which we don't know who she is, we don't know what her motives are. But there, she's a bit mysterious, and she's there. And she sort of leaves him behind to be found by Hazel, who is in the back. And Hazel is a logistician, which is what we call the magic users in the world of Australia. And Hazel finds all over. And he has kind of not a lot of patience for Oliver's amnesia and his questions. He seems a bit he seems a bit worried about what's going on and a bit like, panicky and trying to get to the temple that's in the forest that they're in. So he lives all over already. He's already on a mission. Yeah, he runs into all of our he finds all of her and all of her is like, Can I go with you? Like I don't know what I'm doing. I don't know why I'm here. Like, can I follow you? And he's like, Alright, fine, I'll let you follow me. But like, we have to go, we need to like figure out what's going on here. And we find out that he has a bit of a reason for being so like, short with all of her. And that's because in the area that they're in, there are nights which next to all of her in this chiar is in fact a knight. And Ezel warns all of her about the Knights because the Knights hunt Miss ditions the Knights don't like Miss ditions. And there's sort of a tension going on in history view. We don't really know fully why. But some people are afraid of magic users and they they want to stay away from them. And we get kind of two different sides of this story because we get the magic users afraid of the Knights and Aiza warns all of her about you know The Knights hunting and killing decisions that then we hear about people who are afraid of Miss ditions, too. So it becomes sort of a Like, who do we believe? Like, what, what? What side of the story, you know, is the true one. And that's kind of part of the whole plies. Oliver kind of finds himself on both sides of the story learning about it. In the history of Australia, which is a bit it's a bit muddied. It's, there's, there's a lot of sort of dark stuff that has gone on that Oliver doesn't know about because he, you know, lost his memory.

Jonas Rosland  15:40  
Yeah. And as I was playing through the demo, I think it was Azle talking about stuff that happened, but most people have already forgotten it. So yeah, definitely, history seems a bit muddied. And I definitely want to want to see more.

Jaiden Alemni  15:59  
There's a lot of there's a lot to tell there's, there's, I'm excited to share more. So

Jonas Rosland  16:05  
awesome. So what we see here is a fighting scene. And I was I was very amazed by the artwork and the thought going into the fighting mechanics here. I thought this was really, really cool. It's time based, but also you need to, it's not instant, but you can make things that speeds up your attacks. And it had a lot of depth that I was not expecting. When I started playing here, it was like, oh, I need to pay attention. pretty much immediately. Even with the with the basic enemies here. I needed to pay attention. So can you tell us a bit more about the the game mechanics here, though, and the fighting mechanics?

Jaiden Alemni  16:51  
Yes. So the the battle system, it takes a bit of influence from some folks might be familiar with the Active Time Battle system, which was in the old Final Fantasy games, and Chrono Trigger, where you sort of wait for like a bar to fill up, and then your character gets their turn. And if you took too long other enemies could attack you. This idea was like further refined in a police station RPG called Grandia. And it showed that like bar, and I thought that bar was super cool, where you see each character in relation to each other as they're like moving in time, and you kind of can plan your actions around that. But you still had to wait, you had to wait till your character got sort of to the the end of the bar, then you would choose your action. And then they would like move on the bar. And it was kind of like this, this race to get in, get your turn in first. And I wanted to expand on that. And I was like, Well, what if you can just pick your action right away? Like, what if you don't have to wait, what if it's completely fluid. So I, you know, refine that system. So you can choose your action right away. And the quicker you choose your action, you kind of get an advantage. But you still have enough time to sort of decide, and, and kind of be a little strategic with it. And that system was really cool. And then I had some help from some colleagues and I had a colleague suggest to me to let you speed up or slow down battle. And that like so you can use the trigger buttons on your controller to speed up battle. So if you've picked your actions, you don't have to wait, you can just fast forward to the end and get your action in and start it over again. But if you need a little more time to think you can kind of slow things down. So it's kind of a weird hybrid between a turn based system and like a completely active system. And then I had, I had that going on, and it was like going really well. And then in the demo, I had somebody I had a lot of feedback in the demo where folks when they went into like, the menus to pick like skills, they were getting frustrated because because the system was always active, they would get interrupted while they were like picking items from a list. So I further refined it with another colleague suggestion to slow time down a lot when you're in a list. Very similar to like Final Fantasy seven remake did a similar thing. So like, time almost slows down to a stop, but not quite. It's still pressuring you a little bit, but you have time to kind of think and then keep things going. So it's like it's very fluid. It makes you like I don't know, it's pretty exciting to play cuz you're like always doing something you don't have to sit and wait. You don't have to you know You don't have to like button mash, either. Like there's like this nice balance, I think between the two systems.

Jonas Rosland  20:06  
Yeah, I definitely thought the combat there was a very fluid. There was no. As you said, it wasn't really a waiting game. And there was always something that you could do. You could also pause to make sure that you were ready to block when the enemies attack and everything like that. It has a lot of depth. And I had a lot of fun just figuring out what I should do when because some enemies are of course faster than others. Some enemies hit harder than others. And yeah, it was a lot of fun to figure out and the constant time. The constant passing of time, that's the word I was looking for. Constant passing of time, even when you're choosing things, it kind of reminded me of the the fallout vats system as well. Yeah, no, I'm focused on something. But it's, your enemies still move. And you still have to actually make a decision. We haven't paused the game, we've just slowed it down. Enough. So you can make a calculated choice. And I really liked that. I really like it. So yeah, I had a lot of fun. So I searched out all the enemies that I could find. I battled every enemy that I could find, because I had a blast playing through this. So this was

Jaiden Alemni  21:34  
I'm glad Yeah, that that was a funny thing I had noticed with people who were playing it, you know, I make this. I put the enemies on the map screen, I make it so that you can sort of avoid enemies, because that's something that I that I didn't like about what games is like the random encounters that sort of just interrupt you and while you're playing, and it's like, but I found that even though I made battles optional, most people like enjoyed the battles so much that they were like seeking out enemies to fight like, I wasn't anticipating that. So it was like, Oh, cool.

Jonas Rosland  22:07  
Yeah, it was just really, really fun. So yeah, I absolutely do. I do not enjoy random encounters either. It's, it's, it's a thing of a bygone era, I think. Yeah. But giving the player the choice of actively seeking out enemies and putting them on the map. As he said, there. I think it's, it's brilliant.

Jaiden Alemni  22:33  
Thank you. Yeah.

Jonas Rosland  22:35  
So this is the beginning of the game here. This is where we're you gonna start out, and this is where you're found. The the intro, we're not going to show the pictures of the intro the paper cut intro. Yes. But I really, really liked that I highly recommend anyone that's interested in this go play the demo, though. The intro is just fantastic. It's a really cool demo. So really cool. Intro.

Jaiden Alemni  23:13  
Thank you. Yeah, it was. I had done it all sort of manually, like the paper cut like drawings, and then like, moved them, like individually to sort of get that sort of, it was very inspired by the Legend Zelda Windwaker. Like that beginning opening scene where you see the like, sort of paper graphics, I just like that. That style of storytelling, because it brings you like back, like back to that era of, you know, really long ago. And it really like sets the tone. So it was it was a lot of fun to do, too. It was like I had a lot of fun making that scene. And I hope to like make a couple more throughout the game like and make use of that system. Because it's cool. It's really cool to do.

Jonas Rosland  24:01  
Yeah, it was super, super cool to see. Again, I was not expecting that from an early demo like this. So it was really cool to see. Yeah, and one thing that I

Jaiden Alemni  24:14  
screenshot in the press kit, actually have it if you wanted to showcase it a little bit. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So

Jonas Rosland  24:24  
this one, yeah.

Jaiden Alemni  24:25  
Yeah. So that's a good like, example of what like the what it looks like.

Jonas Rosland  24:31  
The world itself is very colorful. You have very bright colors, very bright and it's easy to see where you should go. And items that are important. Was that a? Was that a choice that you made? You wanted more colors in the world because a lot of games are very bleak. cutaways, especially when we look at ruins, because we have a lot of ruins here, but it's very colorful.

Jaiden Alemni  25:08  
Yeah, that was a conscious decision. And it actually, especially with like the opening area, it's a swamp. And people often associate swamps with like this darkness and this bleakness. And I actually wanted it to be colorful and sort of have like this whimsical, positive element to it. The sprite work for the tiles, like the maps are actually some of them are our default assets from RPGmaker XP, and the originals were were a lot more desaturated I actually polarized them more and like made the colors pop more, because I liked that. Like, that's something I really like about older games, especially like on the Nintendo 64. and stuff. Some of them were almost comically, like colorful, and I missed that I like that sort of just really, really saturated. Look on things. Golden Sun is obviously another big inspiration for the game. And that was another. Rather that was the thing that they did in the game, everything was just super colorful. Be clear to see where you can go like all of the characters, like pop out and are distinct. I'm a big fan of that. Yeah.

Jonas Rosland  26:33  
Yeah, it was it was really cool. And there's also when you start the game, you had a kind of a new type of control scheme, as well.

Jaiden Alemni  26:46  
Yes, yes. And it it it trips some folks up a little bit. Yeah,

Jonas Rosland  26:51  
it did for me for the first few minutes before I got used to it.

Jaiden Alemni  26:58  
Yeah, I actually had added a prompt to the demo after getting some feedback from some players, because I was a little adamant on on having that new control style be the default one because I felt like it worked really well with that like, high paid, fast paced battle system. But I still like to give people options, especially like for accessibility reasons. And let people like change the key bindings and stuff if they want, but I actually directly referenced supermario RPG, because I noticed it had that same system where you can quickly switch between actions just by pressing the face buttons on the controller. And that's kind of why I had designed it that way. So like if you're actively attacking an enemy, and an enemy does something because it's real time and you're like, oh, no, I don't want to attack them. Now I want to defend or I want to use an item or I want to switch to a skill. It's one button press instead of two. And that doesn't seem like a lot. But like when you're in it and you're like doing it. It's like suddenly you're like, Whoa, this is so much faster. But I saw some folks get tripped up by it to some people still prefer the other control scheme even after getting used to it. And that's a okay, too. So. But yeah, I wanted to try something new and interesting to go with the new and interesting system, I suppose.

Jonas Rosland  28:30  
Yeah, no, I definitely liked it. And once I got used to it after the first few bottles, like this makes sense. So I'm definitely on the train for the new control scheme. I really like it. It works really well. It tripped me up a few times throughout the demo as well. But I understand it and I like it and it's yeah, it's very again, I'm going to use the word fluid because it's like easy one of the enemies and we see this here on the screen one of the enemies that I hate in the game for the bass I went in thinking I was just BS, but they kicked my ass Furbish I was not expecting this very fast. Yeah, they're very very fast.

Jaiden Alemni  29:29  
They're very fast and they have poison and everybody loves poison mechanics and RPGs I know it's everybody's favorite so I got to put it in you know

Jonas Rosland  29:36  
the best Yeah, sure. No, it's the best Yeah, I think I died the first time I count like oh yeah okay but the yeah the safe having multiple saves definitely helped. Yeah, yeah, those beasts those beasts devil got the best of me there for but

Jaiden Alemni  29:59  
the They were worse than the Alpha build of the game. They were even scarier. In early versions of the game, those are actually toned down in the demo, which means the I should have like a be final boss at the rate I'm going. They're very, they seem to be very intimidating.

Jonas Rosland  30:21  
I love it. So the, the characters here, I want to dive into the characters a bit more. So let's let's dive into them. So we got the different characters here. Let me see. I'm gonna start with Oliver. So this is Oliver, you already talked about him a bit, but the main character?

Jaiden Alemni  30:48  
Yes, yeah. So this is the main character, the game, I actually did do this artwork, I was kind of like an experimental thing. I'm pretty good. But the thing in his design here that you'll see is he has a, you know, he has the sword in one hand, he has a magic and the other hand. And that's like a really key part of his character throughout the game is he's sort of like the bridge between, you know, the Knights of the world and the magician's of the world. Because he, he kind of gets a side of both stories. And also, because he's the main character, and you can't really swap him out in battle, you'll, you'll get new characters throughout the game that you can use in battle, but I don't think I'm going to make it so that you can take all of her out of battle. So I wanted to have them be kind of well rounded, like you can get sort of some some physical affinity out of them. And you can get some magic affinity out of them. So you have this sort of this spell sword motif going on with his design. Which, which I have you can see here in the key art. And his clothes are otherwise simple. I wanted something kind of not too complex, in contrast with Azle, which we'll get to later. But yeah,

Jonas Rosland  32:14  
yeah, let's dive into Azle a bit.

Jaiden Alemni  32:17  
Is the science a little more complex. But you know, very, very, like classic. I'm gonna say wizard. I know they're not their missions in this world, but sort of the adorned robes show like his like, class, you know, he's obviously a, you know, a powerful magic user, he comes from a place that is not nearby, it sort of shows this. This like fanciness to his character. And yeah, he was he was a fun design to come up with. With all of like, the different robes and the the contrasting colors and stuff. And the you'll see the jewelry, the gold jewelry is actually like a thing, like among musicians, and I have a little bit on each character that is a magic user. And then of course, the blue hair is something that we see across the magic users too. So there is actually a law reason for that.

Jonas Rosland  33:21  
Yeah, and I also believe, I also see black fingernails.

Jaiden Alemni  33:26  
Yes, that was, if it's funny, I was like working on I think it was this art piece because the artists that helped me with this or that I had commissioned for this, they also helped me with the key art, which I know we'll go over later. But basically, I gave them a sketch. They sent me some the beautiful line work of the character, and then I colored the line work in after the fact. And yeah, when I was going through coloring, I was like, You know what, I'm like, we're gonna paint his fingernails like there's something about it. We're gonna give him black fingernails. There's just it was just in the moment thing and like, I love it. It's no you don't notice it really? Unless you're like paying attention. And if you do you're like, cool, like, distinguished gentleman hates his nails on Sundays.

Jonas Rosland  34:17  
Like it. We have a few other characters here, here as well. So let's check out some of the character profiles.

Jaiden Alemni  34:30  
Yes, so this is Minerva. I actually just revealed her on Twitter the other day, which we'll learn more about her later on. Oh, we're now we're on all over. So yeah, this is the key art for all of her. This is Serena who is on that that main key art. She's a knight who Oliver is going to meet. This is Arlen who we haven't really heard much about yet, but he's also a knight you could seize a bit more He's a bit more decorated. But we'll learn more about him later on in the game. And this is obviously Hazel's profile art. This is Baldrick who was featured in the original alpha demo. He was actually, there's something a little interesting about him is he was in the role of Azle. Like he was what Azle currently is in the demo. He was in that role in the alpha version. So all over in the alpha version, which we'll we'll kind of talk about later, but he like wakes up in town and it like Baldrick actually goes with him to the dungeon and I reworked the story a little bit and so we get Baldrick a little bit later in his story arc has changed a little bit, but you see, he also has the night motif, but it's a little bit different for him. So we get to learn a little bit more about him as the game goes on. And his association with the Knights his his all of the Knights have that sort of collar that like sweater like turtleneck type thing going on. And his is a little bit more worn with age so we can tell he's got somewhat of a past. They're

Jonas Rosland  36:21  
very cool. Very cool. So all these characters, of course, these are the profiles for them. Yes, but then you for the game. You created some fantastic character sprites as well.

Jaiden Alemni  36:38  
Yes, well, I the character sprites are a paid commission. The artists name is Bert. He did an incredible job. Like, I still look at the sprites. And I'm like, kind of floored by how, how fantastic they look. And how they really like. Like, every design aspect, important design aspect of the characters is captured in the sprite. Which is incredible to me, because like the sprites are small, you don't really have like a lot of room to work. But like all of these really key aspects are visible and make them look really distinct in that battle scene. So it's, it's just great to see. See them come to life, so to speak, in that way.

Jonas Rosland  37:27  
Yeah, I think the the sprite work here is just stellar. It's it looks so darn good.

Jaiden Alemni  37:35  
It does. It's very good. Yeah,

Jonas Rosland  37:37  
it's just fantastic sprite artwork here. So yeah, that's fantastic. And this one, big three, what do you what did you call it?

Jaiden Alemni  37:48  
So solich, or Solage was the the name for it. And I, I actually don't remember how I came up with the name. Like, I know that it's sold. And then Lich like, like the, like the monster I forgot or so or I got so from but yeah, it's like this, this big tree monster basically, that you encounter in the first dungeon, which has this. It's Earth themed. But throughout the dungeon, you sort of see like the vegetation. And you see like the rocks like intertwined with the vegetation. So with this boss, when I kind of came up with a design, I wanted that same like motif in its design. And so like, this is what I came up with. And then of course the sprite, Sprite artists executed it. Amazing. Like, it looks so great. And it looks super cool in game. And you like swings down is giant, like rock hammer fist. It's like really neat.

Jonas Rosland  38:52  
Yeah, it's fantastic. I think we want to move into the key art process that we've alluded to a few times here, because this is this is some, this is really, really cool, I think. So I started with the first picture that you sent over here.

Jaiden Alemni  39:10  
This was a lot of a lot of fun to do, too. So this was my sketch of the key art. And so I had talked to the artist. Her name is Ruben. They're very good at what they do. I sent them I came up with a sketch, you know, and kind of got like the idea I actually spent quite a lot of time thinking about sort of the composition of how like all of the characters were going to, like fit and where the logo was gonna go before I before I gave it to them. So yeah, so this was the sketch that I had, you know, completed for them. And I was like, you know, feel free to make changes. She was like, Is it okay, if I make like a few changes? I'm like, of course, yeah, like whatever works. And then she sends me back a sketch and I was like, oh my god, this is was amazing. Like, I couldn't believe it. It was like, it's so professional looks so cool. Really, like brought the characters to life. And like, captured, like, the essence of kind of what I'm going for with the game. And yeah, so I gave, I gave them the okay on the sketch. And then they sent me back there. Well, this was yeah, like, like placed the logo a little bit sort of arranged it to see how like the composition would look. And it was good. And then of course, they sent back this gorgeous line art, which was the commission that I had done for them, or what I had commissioned them to do. So they sent me back this lovely liner, and then I started coloring it. And I have a background in graphic arts, but it, it took Oh, it took me some time, I think it took me about an entire month to get through this thing. And really make it something that I was happy with. And it was just kind of layering and playing with different lighting. As I was like, you'll actually see this first example, the background is dark in the foreground was light. And I was like that looks really weird. So as I reworked it, I sort of reversed that. So the characters in the background are darker, or the characters in the foreground are darker and the characters in the background are lighter. And that like really pulled it together. And it was just adding layer after layer and just changing the colors around and stuff. Until I could make it oh, what it is. Yeah. So there was a couple more. This was like another pass with the shadows. This was the pre like final pass. So like all of the colors were done. And then I sort of move the sliders around. Yeah. And like made it sort of evened it out and made it look more cinematic, I guess. And yeah, so that's the that was the process. A lot of fun. A lot of work.

Jonas Rosland  42:15  
I bet but it looks amazing. Thank you, I think, yeah, it looks fantastic. And it's really cool to see it from the original art that you sent over the like, Hey, here's what I think. And then seeing this here. Yeah,

Jaiden Alemni  42:33  
yeah, it's, it's very, very cool to see it like imagined the way I was picturing it in my head because it that's a very frustrating process, right? Like, we get this image in our head. And then we sort of make a sketch. And it's not quite what we were imagining in our head and then going through this process, like I was able to, like make it happen, and it's super glad.

Jonas Rosland  42:58  
Yeah. Yeah, I think it's it's super, it's beautiful. You did a fantastic job, coloring and shading and everything here. It looks absolutely amazing. Thank you. Really, really cool. So we, I want to dive into the alpha a bit so people can see like, we've already shown what the game looks like right now, people can try the demo as well. But I want to show people what the Alpha look like. And then I want to dive a little deeper into your dungeons and how they're created. But let's start with the alphas here. This is so nostalgic.

Jaiden Alemni  43:46  
Yeah. So this was when I started in. This was, I think the screenshots from 2018. So this was after I like this was even after refining this sort of 2017 like demo that I had for that contest. But yeah, it was in this this like locked resolution. This was like sort of more true to the default RPG Maker design. You can see some of the like, core ideas are here. Oh my gosh, that old Oliver design is so funny. It was Yeah. Oh my goodness. It was really it's come a long way. This is the essence system, which I actually changed it a bit. After like thinking about the system and how it worked. It changed through to the the new demo, which I know we'll get into sort of the mechanics later but yeah, and then of course that battle system. It's changed so much you can you barely see that time bar at the bottom. So yeah, it's been spent a long time of like sort of refining it. I

Jonas Rosland  45:00  
think it's wonderful to see the how far it's come. So seeing the alpha here and then playing the demo as well. And contrasting the the two. Yeah, you can definitely see how far it's come. Yeah,

Jaiden Alemni  45:13  
it's, it's, it certainly has the old. The old Alpha was also like direction, like the movement was gridlocked. So you only moved like one tile at a time. And one of the big changes I made that took me a really long time to do with the new demo was that sort of grid list movement, that, that like smooth, like all eight directions, free movement. And it makes such a world of difference. Like if I ever go back to the alpha just to like every now and again, I'll go back just to like, remind myself how far I've come. And it's like, Oh, my goodness, this is so uncomfortable. Like how did it work like this for so long? Because it feels so good to move like freely without that restriction? So yeah.

Jonas Rosland  45:59  
Yeah, this is awesome. So within the game, of course, we got multiple different venues, so to speak, we got dungeons, we got overwhelmed, get a castle or a ruin? How do you how do you build these out? And how do you how do you think about? What do you think about when you're building these out?

Jaiden Alemni  46:19  
So um, I have sort of a process. So what I'll do is I'll usually, you know, kind of, I'll do a document first, I'll actually sort of type out what my plans are for an area, I'll sort of summarize what the area is about, like the purpose it serves for the game, sort of the key aspects of the area. And then kind of the mechanics of that area. And I do this for all of the areas in the game, not just the dungeons. So like, when the player starts the game in the like the demo in particular, you know, they go through this area, Morden forest and mortem swamp. And in my mind, it's still kind of the dungeon. And even the towns are still kind of a dungeon, right, they all sort of serve this this purpose, and you have like a path that you want the player to go through. So I start on paper first. And then I'll open up the editor. Sometimes before I even do something like this image we have on screen, I'll open up the editor, and I'll kind of like rough out like some some map like tiles to get like the spacing and stuff. And then I'll do something like this picture, at least specifically for Dungeons where I plan out the structure and the path. So I have a good idea of kind of what I'm getting into. So I don't get, like lost in it as I'm designing because it's very easy to sort of start designing and then get kind of lost in the details and not have this like I need this like big picture. On top. And I got a lot of like these sort of ideas from studying like, how like The Legend of Zelda did like their dungeons, there's like the series on YouTube called boss keys. That's really good that talks about it, I had a colleague who actually like went to school for game design. And he's very good at level design. And he gave me some pointers on like this, like this kind of like level design as well. And I've also really like liked a level design. Like when I originally wanted to go to school for game design, like I wanted that to be my specialty, I just like like the sort of environment that the player has to traverse the most. Like, it's the most important part of the game. So yeah, so I make something like this that's like very primitive just like gives me this like idea of where they're going to like progress and how they're going to get to the goal of the dungeon, which in this case, we've got the beautiful skull that I drew and MS Paint for the boss. And then once that's done, I do the actual map in game and this is a this is a screenshot of like the whole map and game there's actually a couple rooms missing from this. So I map it all out in game first and then I actually took this giant screenshot, and I threw it in Photoshop, and I dimmed it and then I put these icons here and I sort of to like plan out where I was going to place like enemies and the items and stuff the player gets. Which is funny because like you look at something like this and it reminds me of like the old gaming magazines back in the day like that would tell you like where to find secrets and stuff. It's kind of like the same idea. And I found it's really useful

Jonas Rosland  49:54  
for signing seller guidebook for the game.

Jaiden Alemni  49:58  
I would love to I would love to I mean, there's one that's already like for free that like goes with the demo, but it's not like fancy or anything. I'd love to do like the classic like game manual. Like the old games would be so cool. would be so cool. So yeah, this is this is kind of like what my process looks like, you actually can see to on this screenshot all of the like colored tiles that are used, like in debug mode, sort of for all of those like spots that you jump on. So like, that's kind of like a little like, side thing. Because I have to like place all of those in the the map editor first, and then they're not visible in the game, because well, yeah. obvious reasons. Yeah.

And then this is the full layout of the demo. And actually spoiling a little bit of later area, the bottom half of the map is not in the game yet. But yeah, you see this sort of modern forest starting area that the player progresses through, and I wanted it to just kind of be a straight shot, like to kind of just give you an idea of like, like the, like pace you into the more like twisty paths of the swamp area. So relatively simple, like straight path, though, because I you know, it's the it's the introduction, I just wanted it to be really simple and gentle introduction to the world. And its mechanics. And then of course, I think later areas, I'm looking forward to doing more complicated designs. But you can see at the bottom map is kind of more of an example. It's like almost amaze.

Jonas Rosland  51:53  
Almost looks a little like a dragon down to the left.

Jaiden Alemni  51:57  
Yeah, a little bit a little bit. It's got those like, yeah, the like the twists and turns.

Jonas Rosland  52:05  
Yeah, I think it looks really cool. plays really well. I like the straight shot, as he said, just like to get you used to the game. But while it looks like on the over overhead map here, it looks like a straight shot, and then up to the temple. But there's a lot of nooks and crannies, where you can find things and find enemies and find extra extra items and things like that. So it's definitely worth exploring that the the initial map to its full extent. Yeah,

Jaiden Alemni  52:42  
there's a lot of goodies. There's a lot of goodies in the in both this map, and in the dungeon. There's like a secret in the dungeon that not everybody has, like found like there's like a secret room in there. So it's it's fun. There's like all kinds of I love like, making secrets. Like that's my favorite part of level design things that the player is like, is this. Is this something and then they like, check it out? And it is and they're like, whoa, like, this is cool. Now I need

Jonas Rosland  53:10  
to try it again.

Jaiden Alemni  53:17  
The secret room is Yeah,

Jonas Rosland  53:18  
yeah, I definitely want to find those things. That's awesome. So want to dig into the game a bit? Again, here. You said earlier, there's looking at releasing the first complete chapter later this year. So how do you envision the chapters working? And how many chapters are you thinking?

Jaiden Alemni  53:47  
So there are going to be exactly three chapters, the chapters kind of came, like, like I have had the full game in mind. And it's just like, it's too big for one person. It's like it just that this thing is like such a behemoth of a project. And I was like, Well, you know, I had a couple different options I like could have gone like, you know, the route of like trying to get the whole thing done all at once. But it would take me like a really long time to do it. And I would have to seek funding. And I was like, or, you know, I can just split it into the three parts, you know, finish the first chapter, get an idea for like, what my production and release process is like. And then the second and third chapter, you know, it's almost like it's almost like splitting it into three smaller games instead of doing this one giant project. But the story is all like the story is planned in such a way that like the three chapters actually make a lot of sense. I want them to feel very complete So like, you play the first chapter, it's still going to be like, I'm ballparking, about 10 hours, maybe more right now for the first chapter. So it's going to be like a sizable game still on its own. And you have this sort of complete story. But obviously, like, you want to know more like there's, there's more that's gonna happen. And then the second and third chapter will be kind of similar in length, the same idea. And, yeah, that's it, they all kind of work together with each other. I wanted it to be something that is, like everything, like works together. It's not like, Oh, I'm just like, making up chapters as I go. Like, it's all like, planned out basically. Already, I'm just splitting it to make the the production and work a lot easier. For me, and just a better experience, I think, for people who want to play the game too. Like there are people who have been waiting since 2018, since I started this thing. So I was like, I gotta give them something, you know.

Jonas Rosland  56:01  
I think a 10 hour chapter is nice as well. Especially when you compare with these silly large RPGs that take over 100 hours to complete and you're like, I don't know why I am. I'm 70 hours. Am I even at the halfway point?

Jaiden Alemni  56:20  
Yeah, I that's, that was another sort of factor, I think, too, is I love Japanese RPGs. I love RPGs in general, but like, I feel like nowadays, they're they're just all so big. And they're so long, and like, a lot of us like don't have like the time. So I like the idea of like, giving it in these sort of, like, sizable chunks. So like, you play it and you're like, Oh, that was a good experience. And that was like manageable, and I could finish it. And then like when Chapter Two comes out, you know, you can either replay chapter one or your you know, you get a nice reminder of like what happened and you can just sort of continue on. I want it to be like a really seamless experience. When you know, I do come out with it. Like the your saves are going to carry across it left thinking of Golden Sun, like Golden Sun kind of did the same thing. Right, like you had the first game on the Gameboy. And then you had the second game on the Gameboy. And I just cut off the first game and just kind of like cut off. It was like a super crazy Bowfinger. You're like, Oh, no. But you've had to like type in the code to transfer your save over to the second game. So I was like, if, if they can do it, I can do it too.

Jonas Rosland  57:33  
Yeah, like that. I think that's smart. And yeah, a total of 30 to 40 hours, or something like that. That's way more manageable. I'm a full time worker. And then full time dad. Yes, I do this, this nonprofit on the side. And I also want to play games. Yeah, making time for a game that's 100 plus hours is very, very hard. 30 to 40 hours I can manage. So definitely looking forward to those, those three chapters to come out. So when do you I know in the demo, and release dates are always floating, of course, but in a demo, when you within the demo, you mentioned that chapter one of three is due to release late this year. Is that still the plan?

Jaiden Alemni  58:29  
That is the plan, I really want to get it out by the end of this year. You know, I've just been like, dying to like release this thing, especially given like when I had worked on the alpha, you know, I basically like dropped everything to rework the game, like at its core. So I'm like now that I've got this good foundation, I want to like move forward with everything. So I'm really shooting for the end of this year. I mean, I'm a part time developer, life happens, like, you know, I keep it very, like loose. I have regular developers logs every month where I sort of let people know what my progress is. And if I'm still on track, you know, but I'm not gonna like officially announce a date or anything like that until I'm like certain it also depends on like, what other games and stuff are coming out like, I know like Breath of the Wild two is due to come out and if like the wild two comes out and like the same time that I'm planning on releasing chapter one, like I'm gonna wait a little bit I'm gonna get drowned out by like, those kinds of things. So, you know, it all kind of depends on on how like how my process goes how, you know, when I like sit down and actually start like making maps and stuff. You know, it will go a lot faster I think than the past couple of years, which is just on like raw like programming and planning and stuff. and seeing how that goes. And really, I'm hoping I'm hoping I would love to get chapter one out by the end of this year, and then the goal would be like, maybe a chapter a year. But, you know, I gotta give myself a little time. The other reason why I wanted to do the chapters method is because it also gives me a little time to like, rest and recover before doing it, you know, as opposed to doing this like massive game release, and like spending all this time and like, burning myself out and stuff. So give myself a little bit of time to like, relax, see how the release goes? And then, you know, come out with the next chapter. And then the chapter after that and stuff.

Jonas Rosland  1:00:41  
You mentioned earlier that MK XP makes it easier to pour to other systems as well, or other operating systems like Mac and Linux. does that also mean that you can port the game to say switch or something like that? Or how does that

Jaiden Alemni  1:00:59  
Unfortunately, not. And it's because MK XP is open source, which doesn't play nice with other the the licensing with it is a little bit gray, and doesn't play nice with consoles. So I'm definitely not guaranteeing like a console port. I know, everybody wants to put the guy like I want to put the game on the switch so bad. But I don't want to guarantee it unless I'm sure I know. Even the folks, other folks that had used MK XP, I think they had had the whole game moved over to like Unity in order to like port it to the switch and stuff because it's just, it's this whole thing. So at the moment, no, like the framework isn't there. So it would be something that I think I'd consider after all three chapters are out. Because then it's like, then I can just like put it all together, you know, and then have that on consoles as like one thing, as opposed to like each individual chapter, I think on a console would not work out very well. So I have to admit, I have to manage my expectations a little bit here. So unfortunately, not I can't guarantee any consoles. But if it does, well, you know if people like support the game and stuff, you know, it could certainly happen in the future. I want it to happen in the future. I'd love to see it on the console.

Jonas Rosland  1:02:27  
Yeah, yeah, no, I was playing in here on my my gaming rig here behind me. And it's just beautiful. I need to hook it up to the CRT as well see, see? Oh, yeah.

Jaiden Alemni  1:02:37  
Oh, that would be so cool. If it looks super cool on a CRT, I think that makes the pixel art look like very smooth.

Jonas Rosland  1:02:45  
Yeah, exactly. So I'm gonna finish up here. But before we finish up, I want to talk a little about your review of the indie game scene. So we met at the Boston festival of indie games, the virtual festival. That happened a couple of months ago. The Boston scene is pretty, pretty well established. I'd say there's a lot of game developers around here. What are you? Are you involved in any groups? Or meetups? Or what do you what do you think about the local Boston scene and then the global one?

Jaiden Alemni  1:03:26  
Well, I actually am very much like a game development hermit. I'm actually not from Austin. I live in Connecticut. But Boston is like the closest sort of area to me where there is like game development stuff. Given Boston fig is the only thing that I actually have like direct familiarity with. And I've gone to a couple of years. Given the pandemic, it's been kind of hard to go to other stuff. So I don't really have an opinion on on the local scene, because I'm like, not super involved in it. Most of the things I do are online, I'm very intertwined in the RPG maker community like which is like its own little thing. But globally, I see. You know, I'm very much on like on Twitter and stuff, trying to like show off the game and stuff. And I see other games that people are working on. And I think it's really cool. Like how accessible indie gaming is right now. Like I see games from everywhere. I see games being made from developers all over the world. And it's just really nice to see that because I know that like historically, a lot of games have only come from like the US and like Europe and Japan and stuff. And now we're seeing like all of these other like countries making games, and young developers like me and like just people like getting to Do their own independent thing and bring their ideas to life is like, I don't know, it's a super cool, it's super cool. So I have a lot of hope for it. I think it's just gonna keep getting better and like, more cool ideas are going to keep appearing. And then I'm like looking forward to it. I'm like super grateful for the opportunity that I've had to like make this game like if it wasn't for like, the internet and like all of the free resources available for people to learn game development. I wouldn't have been able to even do this. And of course, all the people I know that I met through discord. And who helped me and gave me you know, both advice and feedback has been like, had a huge impact too.

Jonas Rosland  1:05:49  
Yeah, I think the indie scene is a special everyone. Everyone is super helpful, and just trying to make something fun. Something that people can enjoy. And yeah, like, like you were putting your heart and soul into something that you hope people will enjoy. Even though you're a hermit. You you have this this community of people who are testing your game, download the demo and providing feedback, helping you become better. And learn. And as you said, online learning resources and online, just resources for for game making as well like the open source projects that augment existing existing products and things like that. Yeah, it's I'm very, very grateful that we have a fantastic indie scene right now. I think it's, it's really cool to see. Yeah, yeah. So. So to wrap things up, where can people find you information about the game and download the demo.

Jaiden Alemni  1:07:06  
So I have my website, studioalemni.com. From there is kind of where you can find everything. The game is available on different platforms, the demo, it's on Steam, it's on itch.io and it's on gamejolt. And it's on RPGmaker dotnet. So it's on a few different places that you can download it. If you don't want to download the steam launcher, you know, you can get it on h.io or, or one of the other platforms. It's available for both Windows and Mac OS, Linux soon. Working on that with the next update the capabilities there. It's just something that I had to sort of put aside because it was just a lot of extra work to do on top of already making the demo. I have a Discord server for the game. It's only for the game I don't really do like much extra community stuff like I keep it kind of focused on the game again, because I'm like so into like development. Just trying to like keep it going, you know? And I am on Twitter, I have the studio Alemany Twitter, which is like the official one and I do have a personal Twitter. It's not like super professional but if people want to see like me, like the things that I'm interested in, and like they can find me there as well. Or of course you can find me on my Discord via discord as well. These are all places. But yeah, my Twitter is Jane and Alemany studio Alemany is the studio. A stray via game is the handle for Australia. That's all very obvious, I think.

Jonas Rosland  1:08:57  
Yeah, awesome. Yeah, this has been super, super fun. I want to thank you Jaiden for for volunteering to be interviewed here. This has been super fun. And I had a blast. As I said, I had a blast playing through the game, highly recommend everyone to try out the demo and give feedback after the demo. It's super easy to do short Google form. So please do that. Play through the demo. Super, super fun, very colorful, stupid bees. It's just a super fun game. And I'm really really looking forward to seeing more of legends of Australia. Here. It's going to be a great game and I'm looking forward to chapter one here. Thank you again, Jaden. It's been fantastic. And for everyone listening or watching you can find us at hit Save! at hit Save! dot org on the interwebs. You can find us at hit Save!. org on Twitter and I'm at Joan As roslund everywhere as well, thank you everyone for watching or listening. Have a fantastic rest of the week and catch you next time.

