# Transcript of interview with Matthew Brelsford, creator of Betty & Earl

## Details

Interview took place on March 30, 2022. Interviewer is Jonas Rosland.
Full interview available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tX0NNzZ1fIU.
Transcription is provided by https://otter.ai.

## Transcript

Jonas Rosland  0:22  
Hello, everyone and welcome to yet another Indie Game Preservation interview here at Hit Save!. My name is Jonas Rosland. I'm the Executive Director here at hit Save!. And together today, I got Matt Brelsford from Giant Light Studios with me. And we're going to talk about a game called Betty & Earl. Please introduce yourself, Matt.

Matthew Brelsford  0:46  
Hello. Yep. So I'm Matt. I'm the kind of lead developer of this game. Betty and Earl kinda sole developer, mostly. I'm out in Western Mass. I make games and art. I'm mostly a programmer. I do a lot of contract work for other game studios. Yeah, and when I'm not doing that, I'm working on Bettino.

Jonas Rosland  1:08  
Awesome. Awesome. Yeah, we we met briefly over at the Boston fake virtual fest that happened about two months ago now. And I was really, I love the the demo video that he showed for Betty and Earl. It looked like a really, really charming puzzle games. I wanted to talk to you. So we reached out. And yeah, I played a very early prototype here. Earlier today as well. I'm definitely interested in playing more of this. It's a super charming game. Very, very beautiful. The artwork and everything, and you're the sole developer of this game. Is that right?

Matthew Brelsford  1:51  
Yep, that's right. I did have a little bit of help from contract artists, sort of about halfway through the process to get some sort of concept art done. But I would say most of the artwork is my own. And yeah, all of the programming all of the game design, even now some of the audio, which is in sort of a newer build. I've done myself, yeah.

Jonas Rosland  2:12  
Awesome. So before we dive into the game a bit more, I want to dive into who you are. How did you get here? How did you get started with Betty and Earl,

Matthew Brelsford  2:25  
sir, okay, so I'll kind of start way back, because it's sort of irrelevant, but I'll go a little quick. So early on, you know, for as long as I can remember, I've been interested in computers. At some point, when I was maybe in high school, I somehow acquired a version of Flash back when it was Macromedia Flash. And I just was really, really interested in sort of programming as a creative tool. And so I did that for a little while as a hobby. There's a bunch of websites, there's this one guy a bit 101, I keep, I can't remember his last name, but did these sort of flash math experiments. And I was really, really sort of intrigued by that. And so I was always sort of a hobbyist programmer. And then I went to school as an I majored in theater of all things, and graduated in 2008. And graduating in 2008 was a bad idea. And having a theater degree was also not especially helpful, just at any time, but especially then. And I eventually, kind of got back into programming, because there was money there where there wasn't, you know, in theater, to know and surprise. And, yeah, I got into web development. That was sort of the way that I was able to get a job. And so I did that for about five years, did a bunch of web development. And then kind of was dissatisfied with that I was working at some marketing agencies, and it paid well, but it was not creative, fulfilling, or, you know, personally fulfilling, and then decided to try to make the shift over to games. And I was able to do that sort of through educational games, I worked at this great studio called fable vision studios out of Boston. They kind of specialize in certain mission driven, not just games, but games, websites, media, and stuff like that. And so I was sort of a good fit. I had some game development experience in some web development experience, and they like that. And so I was able to kind of nudge my way into games. The whole time. I'm sort of working in unity as a hobbyist, making sort of, or trying to make games doing game jams and things like that. So I worked at fable vision for I think, five plus years. And then at some point, I decided to go out on my own, you know, I had started to do some freelance work, and realized that I could just make More money and pick my projects and stuff like that. And even though I really loved working at fable vision, I decided to go full time freelance. And

Jonas Rosland  5:11  
very brave.

Matthew Brelsford  5:13  
Yeah, I mean, I, it was scary. And I don't know, I just had I had a lot of sort of background like I did enough freelance before I left that I had, you know, a good chunk of savings. So I had some runway. And I met with a couple of friends of mine, one who runs a studio out here, Paul Hake. And he was like, Oh, if you want to do freelance, that's fine, you would be totally fine. We've got work for you right now, when can you quit your job, like, come on, come do this freelance work. And so that was, that was great. And so it was a big relief. And I had another friend Elliot Mitchell, who runs the Boston unity group, and sort of say the same thing. So I felt really confident about it, even though I'm a very anxious person, and took the leap. And I'm so glad I did. So that was about three years ago. So I've been sort of doing joint line studios full time for about three years, mostly doing contract work. So the story of Betty and Earl is while I was working at fable vision, so this is five years ago, now, I had to learn this new tool called Phaser, which is this html5 game framework. And so in order to learn it for a client project, I was like, I'm just going to make sort of the simplest project I can think of, I'm going to make this sort of soccer Bond style puzzle game. And so I did that. And I, the way that I like to program my games is I like to sort of make everything the same type of objects. So this is the thing that I get from like net hack. And Derrick, you who made Spelunky also talks about this, it's like a shared physicality. And so what I did is I made my player, the kind of main player character. And the goal, the same type of thing. And what I accidentally did is I didn't turn off the movement on the goal. And so what happened is they were both moving at the same time based on my input. And of course, that was like a bug. But I sort of stopped and I'd really love to turn bugs into features. And so I was like, Okay, well, that's now the game is everything moves at the same time. Oh, that's, that's hilarious. Yeah. And so that's, that was really sort of the whole concept for the game, just was based on this bug where I sort of forgot to do a thing. And that's that sort of, and then I, you know, I built I don't know, maybe 30 or so levels in that version, and was really, really happy with it, but I hated Well, there was this, I did this terrible thing to myself where I had this brilliant idea for how to like really make this the most amazing game ever. And it totally derailed the project. And and then I kind of paused it for maybe two, three years now. Maybe longer five years. And then about a year ago, I had some time between projects and I was like I'm just going to pick up Betty and URL again. I'm going to rebuild it in unity, which I'm much more familiar with. And so I did that and you know, that was supposed to be like a three month project but now it's been a year and change and I'm really pleased with how it's it's turned out it's by far the best thing I've ever made. Yeah, so here we are today.

Jonas Rosland  8:39  
That's awesome. So you a bug for another game became a feature which then became a full game.

Matthew Brelsford  8:46  
Yep, exactly right.

Jonas Rosland  8:47  
I love that. That's a that's a fantastic origin story I think for for this game. It's it's just a super super cute game. I and before we dive into the game, I want to show the trailer here. This will will show the trailer for everyone who's watching or listening to this later. Please enjoy the trailer for Eddie and Earl. Just don't know what I'm supposed to be. The other day Yeah, really? All right. Welcome back, everyone. The trailer for Betty in URL is what really grabbed me when we when we spoke at Boston fig virtual fest there. It's just so darn cute. And as you said, it's pretty simple. It's very simple to understand what's happening there. But as puzzle puzzle games go, they're not simple to master. So a lot of things happening, but it's easy to understand what you're supposed to do. And it's easy to work towards that goal. So I really liked this. I love puzzle games. And I'm looking forward to do a live stream in the future of Betty and URL as well. So people can see how, how bad I am at puzzle games, which is going to be fun as well. But yeah, so the video URL you're planning to release this year? Is that right? That's right.

Matthew Brelsford  10:57  
Yep. Yeah, so the, you know, like I was saying, Before the trailer, it was intended to be a three month project, I've got three months off from contract work, I've already built this game once, and I know what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna keep it really simple. And I'm just gonna bang it out. And then of course, I sort of fell in love with it and was like, You know what this is actually, I think, something special. And so then it was going to be sort of, I was originally going to release it, I don't know, maybe, maybe around now are sort of, like summer of this year. But my wife got pregnant, which is great and very exciting. But then, so I sort of like prioritize making a ton of money so that I can take time off. So Benny knurl kind of was paused for a few months, while I do a bunch of contract work. And so the release date is now sort of the end of this year, I would say it's 90%. Complete, there's like one sort of secret set of levels not really secret, but sort of the big climax of levels at the end of the game. I'm working on those and make an audio. But it's really functionally complete. Other than that, so it's really just content. And then yeah, hopefully, around late this year, we'll we'll have a full release.

Jonas Rosland  12:19  
Awesome. Awesome. So we do have some artwork here that we want to showcase as well. So we want to dig into some of the levels here. And talk about the the way that these are constructed.

Matthew Brelsford  12:35  
Yeah, so what you saw a lot of kind of what you're seeing now is the level select screen. So that's the the art with this sort of nodes on them. And then these are the actual level levels themselves, the grids with where you see better in URL. So I, I, I'm mostly a programmer. And for a long time, I struggled to make game art, and kind of really got frustrated with that. And over time, I sort of developed this approach to making my developer art actually start to look good. And so you'll see all this art is just squares and circles and triangles. And then just like a lot of post processing effects, right, so it's really and I actually just gave a GDC talk about this. But it's sort of like an art style that I think anyone can really adopt. You know, you don't I don't really know how to draw, I don't know how to make 3d models. But I really just use squares and circles and triangles. And then you know, I pick good colors, and I have some tools to help you pick good colors. And then just like holes and effects and stuff. Yeah,

Jonas Rosland  13:47  
I love the color schemes here. I think they fit really well into the game and they're pleasant to look at. They're there. In the way you do though, the squares and circles and triangles and things like that, it's it's easy to understand what you're supposed to do. Again, it's easy to like this piece here. You can see the kind of the chessboard pattern. So it's easy to kind of calculate where your characters would end up as well as we're moving them around. And yeah, I really like it. I wanted to ask you about the textures that you're using here. Because there's a lot of text and notes and things like that, like musical notations. So where are those from?

Matthew Brelsford  14:35  
Yeah, so that's a great question. So yeah, so I mentioned that I think I mentioned that I, at some point, reached out to an artist Helvetica blanc on Twitter. Just love their artwork is just really, really great. And I found her on Twitter just kind of accidentally, I don't you know, one of my friends retweeted some of her work or something like that. And just She was totally in love with it and really felt like it was there was sort of like a kindred spirit in terms of our art style. She's a lot of just primitive shapes, she has a ton of eyeballs everywhere, which I also do. And the so I already had a pretty strong art direction or kind of knew what I wanted. But I contacted her. And she made some concept art. And she does this thing where she'll have sort of texts, cutouts sort of layered in as textures. And often will use sheet music, it's usually it's very often sort of religious texts, you know, sometimes from the Bible or from like, Eastern texts and stuff like that. And so I just was in love with that. And so in the concept worksheet, she, she put a bunch of that in there. And I was like, okay, great, we're doing that. So that's sort of the origin of that. And then what's a little hard to tell? There's this language called Toki Pona, which is this sort of constructed language with 120 words in the entire language, right? And that to me, and she actually told me about this language, because I was thinking at the time that I wanted to use what's, what's the universal language,

Jonas Rosland  16:16  
Esperanto, Esperanto,

Matthew Brelsford  16:18  
and I was like, Oh, I've got this sort of meta puzzle, which I'm not going to really tell to anyone. But I need this language that will work no matter what language the person is playing the game in. And she's like, Oh, well, there's this thing called Toki Pona. That's got 120 words. And there's like 13 letters. And that was perfect, right, it was very minimal, kind of suited the aesthetic. And so all of the text here is actually in Toki, pona. And so there's these kind of like messages in here, that are sort of irrelevant to the content of the game. And they're really sort of subtle, and you wouldn't even notice it, but there's a lot of stuff about sort of connection. And being together and stuff like that sort of the themes of bending IRL. So that's the actual text is Toki Pona. And then the sheet music is just like, I found some free sheet music stock, or, for the most part,

Jonas Rosland  17:11  
it's awesome. So Toki Pona. That's what we see here to the right.

Matthew Brelsford  17:16  
Yep, yep. While while the loan, I don't even know really how to pronounce it.

Jonas Rosland  17:22  
That's really cool. That's really cool. Yeah. Because the, the way it's used in these shapes, if you remove the the words, and the sheet music and everything, it looks very clean. But with this added into it, it definitely gives more of a texture, it gives you more a more visually pleasing aesthetic as well. So I I really, really liked this, it looks really, really cool.

Matthew Brelsford  17:49  
Yeah, I mean, you know, like I was saying, you know, this sort of simple developer art made to look polished. One of the approaches that I think really helps with that is lots of sort of full screen effects, right? Because it's very simple. It's just circles and squares and triangles and hearts in this case. And so finding ways to just put texture as much sort of texture on top. Just goes a really long way to sort of giving it that depth to make it not feel like it's just yeah, developer art. Feels more intentional and stuff like that. Yeah. I'm glad you like it.

Jonas Rosland  18:26  
Yeah, no, it looks fantastic. Did you want to talk about the early prototype? A bit here?

Matthew Brelsford  18:34  
Sure. Yeah, so let's see, what can I say? Yeah, so Okay. So I mentioned, you know, five years ago, I made this HTML five phaser version of this game, the original version of the game, and for whatever reason, just abandon it. But then came back to it. And this is what the game looked like, probably after about a week or two of development, when I sort of restarted development in unity. And so you can see, like, a lot of the sort of core art direction is there. And what this video is showing is, you know, the kind of main mechanic of betting are all moving around the screen together, right? That's sort of the whole thing is that they're connected, and they all move at the same time. The kind of epiphany or the kind of big thing that I got really excited about in his GIF is kind of in that break between the phaser version and union version I played Baba is you and there are a bunch of levels in Baba as you where you're controlling lots of things at the same time. And it really gave me and this is gonna sound like a little movie so forgive me, but I kind of like understood what it was like to be a bigger thing right? Like I'm controlling. So like, what if I was the universe? Right? And that sort of clicked for me in a way where I was like, Okay, I'm not actually just controlling Betty and Earl, really controlling the whole universe. And so what could I do with that? And so the flames were sort of an early sort of like, Okay, what if I'm controlling these flames that are growing? And so that's sort of the mechanic you see here. Yeah, but you know, again, sort of the art direction, and the mechanics were already sort of in place pretty early on. And so this is I got really excited. And yeah, yeah. That's awesome.

Jonas Rosland  20:40  
Yeah. So the, as you said, Here, as we can see, you're controlling not just the characters, but other items within the world, in this case. Fire which is damaging, of course, to you. Yeah. So that that's really cool. So the you control? I wouldn't say enemies, maybe. But obstacles or dangers, you control those two.

Matthew Brelsford  21:10  
Exactly. Right. And it's, I'm glad you're sort of hesitating about calling them enemies, right. Because that's sort of the the core concept here, right is you have these other characters or these other things in the world, that in sort of a traditional video game, you would totally call them enemies. But actually, what happens in betting URL is you kind of need them to help you get betting URL back together, right, because sometimes you have these things in the way of like the flames. But then you have these sort of like ice creatures and later levels that will sort of put out the flames for you. Or you've got these green creatures that can move, and they'll pick up keys or press switches for you, right. So it's idea and this is what it kind of means right to exist as like, the sort of higher thing is that the things that happen to you that are bad, or difficult or challenging, are actually maybe there to sort of unlock these other pathways for you. And that's sort of the main metaphor that we don't really talk about in betting or all, but that's sort of the driving concept behind it.

Jonas Rosland  22:12  
I like that. I mean, the me, we have turtles in Super Mario, the stomp on and then take them off to do to do other things like extinguish other enemies or open open blocks or things like that for you. So it's a really good mechanic and like, like it. Thanks. Yeah, the so how do you? I want to go back to the levels for a little bit here. How do you? How do you envision the levels? How do you create these, I saw some other artwork that you sent over that had a ton of levels? How many levels are there in the game right now? You said we're you're roughly 90% Complete? How many levels are there? And how do you? How do you start thinking about levels in the themes for the levels.

Matthew Brelsford  23:12  
So right now, there are probably 100 levels in the game, which is kind of a lot but they're they're pretty bite size. My goal with this game is to be a little bit more approachable. I you know, I love a good really hard puzzle game. But this is sort of a little bit friendlier of a puzzle game. Or at least that's what I'm going for. And the way that I approach creating levels. So I Jonathan Blow, you know, created the witness and braid talks about this thing. Forward game design, and I might get this wrong, I maybe have an interpreted, interpreted incorrectly. But sort of my understanding of it is you kind of just create these mechanics, or you create levels, and you just kind of systematically put them together, right. So if you have one Annie, that doesn't move, you make a bunch of levels with Betty and Earl, and the thing that doesn't move. And then if you have a level, or if you have this other mechanic with a creature that does move, then you make a bunch of levels with a creature that does move and then a bunch of levels with the creature that does move and the creature that doesn't move, and you kind of sort of methodically just add them together one at a time. Until and, and the way that I do it is I'm kind of dumb about it. Like I kind of let chance play a big part in it. And then I just I act more as a curator than like a creator. Right? So I'm kind of just randomly trying things out. And when I discover something that's really exciting. I'm like, oh, okay, Hey, that's really good. I'm gonna now that's a level, right. And so really, I've made probably 1000 levels at this point. But I've really only selected 100 or so. So, so that's kind of the general philosophy is kind of really just letting chance take over and randomness. And it's really actually hard with Betty and Earl, because because everything is connected, and because everything sort of moves across the screen, or at least Betty and I will do a lot of the sort of animated characters do as well. It can be, it's really tough to sort of make a level, you might think you know what the solution is, but then you find, oh, there's actually this, like, really easy way to solve this level. And totally, then you can't, you know. So it's a lot of just chance. But then there's this, like, I was saying, there's this sort of meta puzzle, which I'm not going to talk about too much. But it results in actually, I only have sort of 13 different level shapes. It's maybe more than 13. But so you'll see the sort of same level is reused over and over and over again, but with different characters are different starting positions, different obstacles, and things like that. And I just really, I love that in in kind of all media were arrested development, I think about a lot is great TV show if you haven't seen it, but they will tell sort of the same joke 100 times, but they'll kind of evolve it throughout the course of the show. And each time, it's like, oh, it takes on this sort of new meaning or this new depth or something. And I just love that. And so that's why it's kind of a similar thing, I'm sort of reusing the same stuff, but putting a new twist on it every time. And you know, so about halfway through, I had all of my level designs, and I'm just populating it with the props that are relevant to that zone, and seeing what happens. And then oh, this is an interesting level, or this is an interesting property of these mechanics when they're put together. And that's it.

Jonas Rosland  27:09  
That's really cool. So letting chance take over as your muse, essentially.

Matthew Brelsford  27:15  
Yeah. And like I said, kind of just being a curator, I think we have so many tools nowadays, like technology really assists us. And I kind of let it do its thing. So in a lot of them all of my levels, I have like a randomize button where I can say, okay, these are the mechanics, these are the titles or the locations in the level that are sort of most interesting. So just randomly put a bunch of characters and so I'll do that I'll play the level. Is it good? No. Okay, maybe I can shape it. Or maybe I'll just randomize again. And then yeah, just pick the levels that are sort of most interesting.

Jonas Rosland  27:50  
Do you foresee you releasing a level editor for variant URL in the future?

Matthew Brelsford  28:00  
We'll see. I think if if there's sort of enough, if it's popular enough, definitely. But I don't know. I think I'm, I'm trying to not let myself scope creep myself out of releasing. So no. Good idea. Yeah. Yeah. And, yeah, if there's enough interest, I would love to do that. But I'm not

Jonas Rosland  28:26  
sure. Yeah, yeah. No, I think that's fair. You, you have other things to focus on. For? For sure. For sure. Yeah, again, I think it looks really, really good. And so I have a three year old daughter and I, we play puzzle games together. She has, she has a little Kindle Fire that she she plays puzzle games on and we play together. And I really liked the simplicity, the block based puzzle games that we played together and just seeing her starting, like understanding how these blocks fit together. And I see a lot of that here as well. So your your your prior experience with educational games, I think really shines through here too. And the way you present the game as an approachable game, something that you want people to understand quickly. It really, really shines through here. So it it's really cool. And I hope to play this with my daughter in a few years when she's ready for something like this as well.

Matthew Brelsford  29:42  
Yeah, great. No, I'm glad you said that. I think I am informed a lot about how I make my games based on my time making educational software. For example, I we made this game and it was my first game that I kind of big game where I was the lead developer on I met, and we took it to a school to have people play tested. And yeah, and it was great. It was a really good experience. The kind of core lesson that I remember taking away is that nobody, and maybe it's just kids, but I find it's true for myself. Nobody reads anything. There's absolutely no one reads anything that will immediately just Button Mash to get okay. Okay, I just want to play the game. And so I think that that's really true. If people aren't super interested in your game, they just and even if they are, they will not read any piece of text that you put in front of them. And so I've developed this approach, where it's, I will train you how to play the game through gameplay. I think that's sort of the best way to teach a player how to play your game or get them on boarded, especially with a puzzle game where sort of learning the mechanics is is the joy of the game. Yep. But yeah, so there's really there's almost no text required. So even if you can't read, you could theoretically figure out how to play the game.

Jonas Rosland  31:00  
Yeah, yeah. No, I I think you're absolutely right, that a lot of people just don't don't care what's written on the screen. One of my favorite genres of games are action RPGs. And, of course, there's a there's a ton of dialogue, there's a lot of information to read, and how to understand how different things fit together. And then I have friends who have been playing the same games that I have for hundreds of hours, and they haven't written. They haven't read a single piece of things. They're just looking at better stats. I'm like, okay, yeah, that works. While I'm 100% into the lore, and I read everything I love reading. But I absolutely understand that. That's not everyone. Yeah. So yeah, I think that's, that's smart. teaching, teaching players how to play your game by actually playing the game.

Matthew Brelsford  31:51  
Yep. Yep.

Jonas Rosland  31:55  
I wanted to dig into some concept art that you sent over? Well, so let's have a look here.

Matthew Brelsford  32:03  
Yeah. So I mentioned I reached out to this artist Helvetica blog, who I just I love her artwork. Check her out, she's on Twitter, Instagram, she's really just spectacular. And I kind of on a whim, right? I, up until this point, had never contracted an artist, or musician to help me on I've done everything solo. But I kind of finally felt like, okay, betting URL is actually pretty good. I'm going to reach out to find an artist. And I was totally intimidated. You know, Scott 1000s of followers, just amazing artwork. And just like a real artist, I think. And I don't, I think she's done a little bit of game work before. But definitely like, the stuff she posts is very just sort of like fine art kind of prints, and stuff like that. And so I reached out and I was like, I'm probably not going to hear back, but what the hell. So So I reached out, and she was super, you know, excited and happy to help. And so I kind of described what I was looking for. And she kind of just took it and ran with it. And you'll see, like, there's a lot of stuff. So a lot of sort of, kind of character art and the proper art I didn't end up using, I think I wanted to stay with this sort of story of just using primary shapes or primitive shapes, right circles, squares and triangles. And even though I think, you know, it's great. What she did, it just, I wanted to be able to tell that story of like, here's a game made with just circles and squares and triangles, right. So that didn't stick but what did stick was a lot of this sort of the stuff around the edges like that sign up at the top, I really love that sign. And so that was incorporated into the the main level select screen, there's also like a rainbow. And just and obviously, this sort of text overlay stuff that shows up a lot. And the moon so this was a really useful and valuable experience even though I didn't really end up using a lot of sort of like, I didn't sort of take it one for one but it really really inspired a lot of the work that ultimately went in there. And you know, sort of one of the things you know these flowers, yeah, the the sheet music and this idea of of sort of light backgrounds up until that point of everything was sort of in this black void. And she kind of showed me like oh, it could actually look really nice in this other sort of approach and here's one where I took it almost one for one is sort of you know, the chopped up sheet music The i Here's another one that I took almost one for one that sun up at the top in the rainbow and stuff like that.

Jonas Rosland  34:51  
It's beautiful in if you just had a blank page With no, no things around it, it would be, again, a lot cleaner, of course, but it wouldn't feel as as inviting, I think. Yeah, so I definitely like this. I think the art style is just amazing. And yeah, I can definitely see you taking inspiration for from this, and then I can get into your own thing. This concept art is just gorgeous.

Matthew Brelsford  35:31  
Yeah, everyone. Well, I don't know how busy she is these days. But she was great to work with, I highly recommend it. I'm going to try it. You know, on my next project, I'll probably reach out because yeah, this was so helpful. Yeah.

Jonas Rosland  35:45  
Yeah, this is awesome. I wanted to dig into one last piece of art that you sent over, which is the the marketing concept. Sure. Tell me a bit about what we're seeing here.

Matthew Brelsford  35:57  
Yeah, so. So I reached out for the concept art, and then some months pass, and I'm getting ready to put the game up on Steam. And you have to come up with all this sort of marketing collateral for steam. And so I don't know what I'm doing. And I was like, you know, I'm gonna reach out to Helvetica Blanc, Eden, is her name, and ask her for some help. And so she's I sent over sort of, again, some instructions. One of the things you know, that's really important to me is that you from looking at this sort of this artwork that, you know, it's a puzzle game. And that, you know, you maybe start to get an idea of this sort of connection thing. And so that, and the ampersand is actually sort of like a really important, does a lot of work here. And then the key is, was sort of like, okay, to me, the key reads as this is a puzzle game, right. And so what you see here is really just the basically the concept or sort of the really rough mock ups for the steam marketing, artwork that eventually got turned into something better. And most of these don't get used at all. So the one with the eyeballs in a circle, that one's really important. So there's this kind of, like I was saying, this sort of meta concept. I don't know if you know what the, there's a certain type of angel that is described in the Bible. I think it's an aura fan, or something like that. But it's like, basically, these giant rings of eyeballs like it's totally trippy, weird. Creature, you can look it up in Google.

Jonas Rosland  37:42  
I've seen a few renders of that lately. And yeah, they're amazing and terrifying.

Matthew Brelsford  37:48  
Yeah, exactly. And so that's actually like, behind the scenes, that's sort of what Betty and Earl is right there, these eyeballs that are actually all connected. And so that's sort of one concept that we don't really talk about it in the game, but that's sort of going on behind the scenes, is that really, it's the sort of connection of eyeballs and so that circle of eyeballs is sort of a hint of that. The grid is also sort of another thing that maybe hints at a puzzle game. But ultimately, we ended up with this one on that sort of just a two by two grid of squares. There's a key there's a triangle with an eyeball in it. Yeah, but this is just sort of early concept art for the marketing material.

Jonas Rosland  38:32  
This is awesome. The, the game itself. So you, are you having placed to play testers right now for the game? Or how are you? How are you going through like the development cycle right now? What what does it look like?

Matthew Brelsford  38:51  
Yeah. So I've done a lot of play testing. And I'm very careful about my play testing about using play testers, because you can only get a first impression once, and you can really, you know, and so that's really, really important to me. And so I've kind of taken it slow and sort of small batches. Right now, I'm sort of at a stage where I'm just trying to build the last chunk of levels, I need to do a little bit more music. And I don't know in the next three months or so I think I should have the game in sort of like done or at least, you know, alpha done or beta done whatever that means. And at that point, I'll do a lot of play testing. I think it's tough. One of the things that I found is there's sort of this one group of puzzle game players who really liked like a really hard puzzle game, right? Like people who like Bob has used even sausage roll braid the witness, and I'm sort of one of those people So the community that I go to there's this great discord community called like the Tinky puzzle game community, it's by direct connect to people who make great puzzle games. But that community I find just really likes a really like hard, really intense puzzle game and betting iRL is not quite that like, it is a puzzle game for sure. But it's a little bit lighter. And I think it's a little bit, it's definitely not a casual game, but it's just a little bit more approachable and friendly. And so I'm trying to find the right audience for it still. And maybe that will happen, maybe it won't. But you know, from the people who really like love puzzle games, betting or oil is maybe a little easy for them. And so I'm trying to find sort of that middle ground of people who maybe aren't traditionally puzzle game players but are attracted to betting they're all for the the art or just the kind of message behind it. And I'm trying to find that. So play testing for me right now is really trying to find that audience so that I know where to spend my marketing efforts and stuff like that. But yeah, so it's mostly development right now. In the next three months, I'll do more serious round play testing. And then it will just be polished and marketing and polish and polish and polish till the end of the year, basically. Yeah.

Jonas Rosland  41:23  
Awesome. Are you looking to have bidding URL shown any conferences in the near future here throughout the year? No conferences are starting to happen. happen again?

Matthew Brelsford  41:39  
Yeah. I don't know. I think, you know, kind of the original release cycle was was sort of aimed at okay, I'll have the game pretty well done for GDC and PAX East. And I probably wasn't going to table, but it's tough. And so you know, even though I talked to see that, once they had accepted me, they were sort of like, okay, but you need to let us know, by like, January, I think it was like late January, whether or not you want to come out here and give the talk in person. And I, at that point, you know, COVID was still sort of going strong, and I wasn't sure. So I, I said no, I'm gonna have to give it remote. And I, I don't know if I regret that. Because yeah, conferences are starting up again. But so there's no plans for that, you know, I have a baby on the way. So that's certainly going to make it tough for me to travel or do anything like that, for sure. But if there are virtual conferences, I likely well, if you are running a conference out there, and you're looking for someone to showcase your game, for games to showcase, I would love to be a part of it. But I probably won't do anything in person.

Jonas Rosland  42:53  
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I totally get that. I totally get that. Yeah. So you heard it. Conference and meetup organizers, if you want another game to be displayed, betting in URL is here for you. Yeah, that's awesome. So I want to kind of wrap up. I think the game itself is looking stunning. I think it's it's super, super fun. And do you do you think you'll have like a demo out? You said, it'll be like beta ish this summer? Do you think you'll have a public beta public demo out or something like that? At the time, or maybe later this fall?

Matthew Brelsford  43:37  
Yeah. Oh, well. So one thing that I'm planning to do is the steam Next Fest, not in June, but they'll likely they seem to be doing one almost every three months now. So I'll try to get into the the one after June, which would be maybe September. So I'll probably try to do that. And as a part of that, I will likely have a public demo. If people are interested in trying the game right now, I do have a demo available, but not in any sort of easy to access way. So just message me on Twitter. I'm at giant underscore light. And I'd be happy to share a link if you're if you're really curious. But yeah, so I'll likely have a public demo. But probably not until the game is like, Done. Done.

Jonas Rosland  44:26  
Yeah, that sounds that sounds good. Yeah, so you already mentioned Twitter. But where can people find more about betting URL? Where can people reach out to you? Where can people find you on the interwebs?

Matthew Brelsford  44:40  
Yeah, so probably the best place to reach me is on Twitter. So my twitter name is at giant underscore light, as in giant light studios. So that's probably the best way to get in touch with me. If you're interested in learning more about either me or betting URL you could check out giant light studios dot Tom it's all one word. And you can check out betting URL is on Steam right now. So you can go watch the trailer again there's a bunch of screenshots and you know, text describing the game so you could check it out on Steam if you just search for betting neural steam in wishlisted on Steam. Yes, please wish list it wish lists are super important. So yeah, please check it out in wish list. Yeah, those that's probably the best way to to learn more about me or, or the game.

Jonas Rosland  45:32  
Awesome. Awesome. Thank you, Matt. And yeah, I'm Jonas Rosslyn here with hit Save!. You can find more information about us over at hit Save! dot org. And me I'm at Jonas, Rosalind, on Twitter and on Discord and everywhere else. I want to thank you so much, Matt. This has been super, super fun. I'm really really looking forward to the release of this game. Definitely wish listing it on Steam. And yeah, really looking forward to this. Thank you so much for for your time today. And thank you everyone who's been watching and listening. Have a fantastic rest of the week, and we'll see you all soon.

Matthew Brelsford  46:09  
Thanks, Jonas. Thanks for having me.

